Vertex AI
Documentation
Generative AI
Was this helpful?
Send feedback
Access control
bookmark_border
On this page
Predefined roles
Permissions
What's next
To use the generative AI features on Vertex AI, the principals (for example, users, groups, and service accounts) in your project need to be granted the appropriate IAM role. You can also create custom roles to grant a user-defined set of permissions to a principal. This page shows you the applicable IAM roles to grant and the specific permissions needed for each operation so you can create custom roles.
Predefined roles
You can grant the users or groups in your project one of the following predefined roles to give them access to the generative AI features on Vertex AI:
Vertex AI Administrator (roles/aiplatform.admin)
Vertex AI User (roles/aiplatform.user)
To learn more about Vertex AI IAM roles, see Vertex AI access control with IAM.
Permissions
The following table maps generative AI operations to the permissions required for the operation. If you need fine-grained access control, you can refer to these mappings to create custom roles.
Operation Permissions needed
Make prompt requests
aiplatform.endpoints.predict
Save, view, update, and delete prompts in Generative AI Studio
aiplatform.datasets.create
aiplatform.datasets.update
aiplatform.datasets.delete
aiplatform.datasets.list
aiplatform.datasets.get
Model tuning
aiplatform.pipelineJobs.*
aiplatform.customJobs.*
aiplatform.datasets.export
aiplatform.datasets.get
aiplatform.models.upload
aiplatform.models.get
aiplatform.endpoints.create
aiplatform.endpoints.get
aiplatform.endpoints.deploy
aiplatform.metadataStores.get
storage.objects.create
storage.objects.write
storage.objects.get
storage.objects.list
To learn more about Vertex AI IAM permissions, see IAM permissions.
What's next
Learn how to enable Data Access audit logs.
Learn more about access control with IAM.
Learn how to tune a foundation model.
Learn about responsible AI best practices and Vertex AI's safety filters.
Was this helpful?
Send feedback