Vertex AI
Documentation
Generative AI
Was this helpful?
Send feedback
Model API reference for Generative AI
bookmark_border
On this page
Generative AI foundational model reference
Stream response from Generative AI models
Available regions
Responsible AI reference
What's next
Generative AI on Vertex AI (also known as genai) gives you access to Google's large generative AI models in Vertex AI.
Generative AI foundational model reference
Model name Description Can stream responses
PaLM 2 for Text (text-bison)
Fine-tuned to follow natural language instructions and is suitable for a variety of language tasks.
✔
Embeddings for text (textembedding-gecko)
Returns model embeddings for text inputs.
PaLM 2 for Chat (chat-bison)
Fine-tuned for multi-turn conversation use cases.
✔
Codey for Code Generation (code-bison)
A model fine-tuned to generate code based on a natural language description of the desired code. For example, it can generate a unit test for a function.
✔
Codey for Code Chat (codechat-bison)
A model fine-tuned for chatbot conversations that help with code-related questions.
✔
Codey for Code Completion (code-gecko)
A model fine-tuned to suggest code completion based on the context in code that's written.
Imagen for Image Generation (imagegeneration)
This model supports image generation and can create high quality visual assets in seconds.
Embeddings for multimodal (multimodalembedding)
This model generates vectors based on the input you provide, which can include a combination of image and text.
Image captioning (imagetext)
This model supports image captioning and can generate captions from an image you provide based on the language that you specify.
Visual Question Answering - VQA (imagetext)
A model that supports image question and answering.
Stream response from Generative AI models
The parameters are the same for streaming and non-streaming requests to the APIs.
To view sample code requests and responses using the REST API, see Examples using the streaming REST API.
To view sample code requests and responses using the Vertex AI SDK for Python, see Examples using Vertex AI SDK for Python for streaming.
Available regions
Currently all foundation models supported in Generative AI on Vertex AI are available in us-central1
Responsible AI reference
To learn about safety specific attributes and view sample responses, see Safety filters and attributes. Throughout these references there is a citation parameter. To learn more about citations, see Citation metadata.
What's next
Generative AI on Vertex AI has some limitations. To learn more, see PaLM API limitations.
Try a quickstart tutorial using Generative AI Studio or the Vertex AI API.
Explore pretrained models in Model Garden.
Learn about quotas and limits.
Learn about pricing.
Was this helpful?
Send feedback